# Problem 1
Two balanced dice are rolled. 
## (a) What is the probability that the sum of the two numbers that appear will be odd?
We will label the two die as random variables $A$ and $B$
Each of the die has 3 even and 3 odd outcomes.
For the sum to be odd, one odd and one even number must be rolled, which can happen in two ways;
$$
N = 3\cdot 3 + 3\cdot 3 = 18
$$
In total there are $6\cdot 6 = 36$ ways to roll two die:
$$
P(A+B \in \{1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11\}) = \frac{18}{36}
$$
## (b) What is the expected value of the sum of the two numbers that appear?
Expected value of one dice is
$$
E[A] = \sum_{i=1}^6 i \cdot \frac{1}{6} = \frac{21}{6} = \frac{7}{2} = 3.5
$$
The two dice are identical, so $E[B] = E[A] = 3.5$

Since the roll of one die does not affect the value of the other (they are independent), expected value is:
$$
E[A + B] = E[A] + E[B] = 3.5 + 3.5 = 7
$$

## (c) What is the variance of the sum of the two numbers that appear? 
$$
E[X^2]  =\sum_{i= 1}^6 i^2 \cdot \frac{1}{6} = \frac{91}{6}
$$
$$
Var(X) = E[X^2] - E[X]^2 = \frac{91}{6} - \frac{21}{6} = \frac{35}{3} = 11.66
$$
## (d) What is the probability that the product of the two numbers that appear will be odd? 
For the product of two numbers to be odd, both numbers must be odd, and there are $3\cdot 3 = 9$ ways to achieve this.
$$
P(A \cdot B \text{ is odd}) = \frac{9}{36} = \frac{1}{4} = 25\%
$$

## (e) What is the expected value of the product of the two numbers that appear?
Using a nested python for to multiply all values with 1/36, and summing:
```python 
sum(i * j * 1/36 for i in range(1, 7) for j in range(1, 7))
```
Since they are independent
$$
E[AB] = E[A]E[B] = 3.5 \cdot 3.5 = 12.25 
$$

# Problem 2

Three different robots R1, R2 and R3 produce similar items.
Robot R1 makes 20% of all manufactured items; R2 makes 30% and R3 makes 50%.
Suppose that 1% of the items produced by the first robot R1 are defective; 2% of the items produced by the second robot R2 are defective and 3% of the items produced by the third robot R3 are defective.
Suppose that one item is selected at random from a batch of all produced items and it is found to be defective. Determine that probability that this item has been produced by R2.

$$
P(R_{1}) = 0.2, P(R_{2}) = 0.3, P(R_{3}) = 0.5
$$
$$
P(D|R_{1}) = 0.01, P(D|R_{2}) = 0.02, P(D|R_{3}) = 0.03
$$

Law of Total probability:
$$
P(D) = P(D|R_{1})P(R_{1}) + P(D|R_{2})P(R_{2}) + P(D|R_{3})P(R_{3})
$$
$$
P(D) = 0.01 \cdot 0.2 + 0.02 \cdot 0.3 + 0.03 \cdot 0.5 = 0.023 
$$
Bayes Theorem:
$$
P(R_{2}|D) = \frac{P(D|R_{2})P(R_{2})}{P(D)} = \frac{0.02 \cdot 0.3}{0.023} \approx 26.09\%
$$

# Problem 3 
The joint pdf of two continuous random variables X and Y is as follows:
$$
f(x, y) = \begin{cases}
cxe^{-y} & 0\leq x \leq 1, 0< y < \infty \\
0 & \text{otherwise}
\end{cases}
$$

## (a) Find constant $c$ .
By definition, the integral of the pdf must equal 1:
$$
\int_{-\infty}^\infty\int_{-\infty}^\infty f(x, y) dx dy = 1
$$
Constraints:
$$
\int_{0}^\infty \int_{0}^1 cxe^{-y} dx dy = 1 \implies \int_{0}^\infty \frac{ce^{-y}}{2} dy = \frac{c}{2} = 1
$$
To be a valid pdf, c must be:
$$
C=2
$$
And the full pdf:
$$
f(x) = \begin{cases}
2xe^{-y} & 0\leq x \leq 1, 0< y < \infty \\
0 & \text{otherwise}
\end{cases}
$$
## (b) Find the marginal pdf for r.v. X, $f_{X}(x)$. 
This is done by integrating for y:
$$
f_{X}(x) = \int_{0}^\infty 2xe^{-y} dy = \left| -2xe^{-y} \right|_{0}^\infty = 2x
$$
Full pdf:
$$
f(x) = \begin{cases}
2x & 0\leq x \leq 1 \\
0 & \text{otherwise}
\end{cases}
$$
## (c) Are $X$ and $Y$ independent? 
We check by also integrating for marginal pdf for r.v. Y, $F_{Y}(x)$:
$$
f_{Y}(x) = \int_{0}^\infty 2xe^{-y} dx = e^{-y}
$$
When multiplying the two marginal pdfs, its returns the original pdf, which means the two r.v.s are independent
$$
f(x) = f_{X}(x)f_{Y}(y) = 2xe^{-y}
$$

## (d) Find probability of the event that $X$ is smaller than 1/2 and $Y$ is smaller than 1, that is, find $P (X < 1/2, Y < 1)$.
This can be done with another integral:
$$
P(X < 1/2, Y < 1) = \int_{0}^1 \int_{0}^{1/2} 2xe^{-y} dx dy = 0.25-0.25e^{-1} \approx 15.8\%
$$

## (e) Find $P(X = 1/2, Y = 1)$ and $P(X = 1/2, Y < 1)$. 
In a continuous PDF, no single point has a probability, as the probability must cover an area:
$$
P(X=1/2, Y = 1) = 0
$$
$$
P(X=1/2, Y < 1) = 0
$$
## (f ) Find cumulative distribution function for r.v. $X$, $F_{X}(x)$.
$$
F_{X}(x) = \int_{-\infty}^x f(t) dt = \int_{0}^x 2t dt = x^2
$$
Full cdf is given by:
$$
F_{X}(x) = \begin{cases}
0 & x<0 \\
x^2 & 0 \leq x \leq 1 \\
1 & x> 1
\end{cases}
$$

## (g) Draw cdf $F_{X}(x)$. What is the value of $F_{X}(−1)$ and value of $F_{X}(2)$?