# Problem P.1
A web-site access is protected by a password that consists of 5 digits that could be either 0 or 1. A hacker does not know the password and tries to guess this random combination.
## 1) What is the probability that the hacker guesses right from the first attempt? 
There are $2^5 = 32$ options, so probability of guessing on first attempt is 
$$
P(\text{Success on 1st}) = \frac{1}{32} \approx 3.13\%
$$
## 2) What is the probability that the hacker guesses right on the third attempt?
For this to happen, the hacker must first guess incorrectly on the first two, before doing the 3rd attempt:
$$
P(\text{Success on 3rd}) = \frac{31}{32} \cdot \frac{30}{31}\cdot \frac{1}{30} = \frac{1}{32} \approx 3.13\%
$$

## 3) What is the probability that it will take 3 or less attempts to guess the password?
Sum of chances on 1st, 2nd and 3rd tries:
$$
\frac{1}{32} + \frac{1}{32} + \frac{1}{32} \approx 9.38\%
$$

# Problem P.2
The cumulative distribution function for a random variable (RV) $X$ is given by the following formula:
$$
F(x) = \begin{cases}
0, & x\leq 2 \\
\frac{x}{2} - 1, & 2 < x \leq 4 \\
1, & x > 4
\end{cases}
$$
## 1) Calculate the following probabilities:
### a) $P(X < 2.5)$
$$
F(2.5) = \frac{2.5}{2} - 1 = 0.25
$$
### b) $P(X \leq 2.5)$
In a continuous function, any given point has $0\%$  probability, so including 2.5, does not change it:
$$
F(2.5) = \frac{2.5}{2} - 1 = 0.25
$$
### c) $P(X > 2.5)$
$$
P(X>2.5) = 1-F(2.5) = 0.75
$$
### d) $P(X = 5)$
There is $100\%$ probability of the RV having a value below 4,  so $P(X=5) = 0$

## 2) Find the probability density function (PDF) for RV $X$.  Does this distribution have a special name?
$$
f(x) = \frac{dF(x)}{dx} = \frac{1}{2}, 2<x\leq 4
$$
Continuous uniform distribution $X \sim U(2, 4)$

## 3) Find $E[X], Var(X), E[X^2+\exp(X)]$
$$
E[X] = \int_{-\infty}^\infty xf(x) dx= \int_{2}^4 \frac{x}{2} dx = \left| \frac{x^2}{4} \right|_{2}^4 = 3
$$
$$
E[X^2] = \int_{-\infty}^\infty x^2 f(x) dx = \int_{2}^4 \frac{x^2}{2} dx =  \left| \frac{x^3}{6} \right|_{2}^4 \approx 9.33
$$
$$
Var(X) = E[X^2] - E[X]^2 = 9.33 - 3^2 = 0.33
$$
$$
E[e^X] = \int_{-\infty}^\infty e^x{f(x)} dx = \int_{2}^4 \frac{e^x}{2} dx = \left| \frac{e^x}{2} \right|_{2}^4 = \frac{e^4 - e^2}{2}
$$
$$
E[X^2+e^X] = E[X^2] + E[e^X] = 9.33 + \frac{e^4 - e^2}{2}
$$
# Problem P.3
An RV X is normally distributed with mean 20. It is given that the probability that X lies within the interval from 20 to 40 is equal to 0.3 but the standard deviation is unknown.

## 1) Find the probability that X lies in the interval from 0 to 20
Since the mean is 20, and we know the probability from 20 to 40 (a span of 20), and the normal distribution is symmetric around the mean. $P(0\leq X\leq 20) = P(20\leq X \leq 40) = 0.3$
## 2) Find the probability P (X > 40)
We know the probability from 0 -> 40 is 0.6, leaving 0.4, which must be split evenly on each side of the symmetric distribution, leaving 0.2 for $P(X< 0)$ and $P(X> 40)$, so
$$
P(X>40) = 0.2
$$
## 3) Find the standard deviation of X
We can use the Z-score formula:
$$
Z = \frac{X-\mu}{\sigma}
$$
Since we know probability from 20 to 40 is 0.3, and by definition of normal distribution, 0.5 of the probability is below the mean. So we know that $P(X\leq 40) = 0.5 + 0.3 = 0.8$
In the Z-score formula:
$$
P\left( Z \leq \frac{40-20}{\sigma} \right) = P\left( Z \leq \frac{20}{\sigma} \right) = 0.8
$$
By looking up Z-score of 0.8, we get:
$$
P(Z\leq 0.8416) = 0.8
$$
Which can be substituted:
$$
\frac{20}{\sigma} = 0.8416 \implies \sigma = \frac{20}{0.8416} = 23.76
$$

## 4) Find the probability that X lies in the interval from 5 to 20

Z-score of 5:
$$
Z_{1} = \frac{X-\mu}{\sigma} = \frac{5-20}{23.76} = -0.63
$$
Since 20 is the mean, the Z-score is 0:
$$
Z_{2} = 0
$$
For $Z_{2}=0$:
$$
P(Z\leq 0) = 0.5
$$
For $Z_{1}=-0.63$
$$
P(Z\leq - 0.63) = 0.264
$$
Total probability:
$$
P(5\leq X \leq 20) = P(-0.63\leq Z \leq 0) = 0.5 - 0.264 \approx 23.61\%
$$

# Problem S.1
In Denmark, approximately 0.4 of the population cycle to work and school. If you were to estimate the exact fraction of the danish population that cycle to work and school using a questionnaire (yes or no answer):

## 1) Where should you distribute this questionnaire?
a) Aalborg b) Aarhus c) Copenhagen d) All of the above
Justify your answer

It is always better to have more data, with more variation, so d) is the best option as it provides a larger and more representative sample.
However, only measuring in large cities will return biased data, as people in larger cities are more likely to cycle to work and school, compared to those in small towns, where their job/school is in another town.

## 2) How many questionnaire answers do you need to collect to guarantee that the $90\%$ confidence interval of your estimate $\hat{p}$ is inside the range $(\hat{p} − 0.01, \hat{p} + 0.01)$?
As the question asks for a guarantee of 90% confidence, we will use the highest possible variance, by estimating $\hat{p}=0.5$:
$$
\hat{\sigma^2} = \hat{p}(1-\hat{p}) = 0.5(1-0.5) = 0.25
$$
Standard deviation:
$$
\hat{\sigma} = \sqrt{ \hat{\sigma}^2 } = \sqrt{ 0.25 } = 0.5
$$
We know the confidence interval can be calculated using the Z-value:
$$
C_{1-\alpha}= \left(\hat{p} - Z_{\alpha/2} \frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{ n }}, \hat{p} + Z_{\alpha/2} \frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{ n }} \right)
$$
$$
C_{0.9}= \left(\hat{p} - Z_{0.1/2} \frac{0.5}{\sqrt{ n }}, \hat{p} + Z_{0.1/2} \frac{0.5}{\sqrt{ n }} \right)
$$
We can substitute the target interval:
$$
Z_{0.05} \frac{0.5}{\sqrt{ n }} = 0.01 = 1.6449 \frac{0.5}{\sqrt{ n }} \implies 0.8224 = 0.01\sqrt{ n } \implies 0.6764 = 0.0001n \implies
$$
$$
n = 6763.8586
$$
As we cannot ask 0.8 of a person, we must collect 6764 answers to guarantee a 90% confidence interval within $(\hat{p} - 0.01, \hat{p}+0.01)$

# Problem S.2
You want to characterise the parameters that determine the power consumption of a wireless transmitter. You were told that there is a linear relation between the transmission power $P_{tx}$ and the total power consumed by the circuit $P_{circuit}$, given as
$$
P_{circuit} = \beta_{1}P_{tx} + \beta_{0}
$$
where $\beta_{0}$ is the fixed power needed to turn on the circuit and $\beta_{1}$ is the amplifier's inefficiency. To estimate those parameters, you collected a series of measurements that are affected by Gaussian noise, so your linear model is
$$
P_{measured} = \beta_{1}P_{tx} + \beta_{0} + P_{noise}
$$
where $P_{noise}$ is the power of the noise, which is a Gaussian random variable with parameters $(0, \sigma^2)$.
You collected a huge amount of measurements for different transmission powers and (supposedly) saved them in your PC but you cannot find them anywhere. So, the only option left is to estimate the parameters using a few measurements that you recorded in your notebook:

| **Transmission power $P_{tx}$ [W]**    | $0.1$  | $0.2$  | $0.5$  | $0.7$  | $0.9$  |
| -------------------------------------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| **Measured power $P_{measured}$ [W] ** | $0.43$ | $0.52$ | $1.13$ | $1.73$ | $2.01$ |
## 1) Estimate the parameters $\beta_{0}$ and $\beta_{1}$
Using this simplified formula for least squares linear regression
$$
\hat{\beta}_{1} = \frac{n\sum X_{i}Y_{i} - \left( \sum X_{i} \right)\left( \sum Y_{i} \right)}{n\sum X_{i}^2 - \left( \sum X_{i} \right)^2}
$$
We start by calculating relevant numbers for the formula:
$$
\sum_{i=1}^n X_{i} = 2.4
$$
$$
\sum_{i=1}^n Y_{i} = 5.82
$$
$$
\sum_{i=1}^nX_{i}^2 = 1.6
$$
$$
\sum_{i=1}^nX_{i}Y_{i} = 3.732
$$
Now, we place the numbers into the least squares expression:
$$
\hat{\beta_{1}} = \frac{5(3.732)-(2.4)(5.82)}{5(1.6)-(2.4)^2} = \frac{4.692}{2.24} \approx 2.095
$$
We use the slope and sample means to estimate the intercept:
$$
\beta_{0} = \bar{Y}_{n} - \hat{\beta}_{1}\bar{X}_{n} = \frac{5.82}{5} - 2.095 \frac{2.4}{5} = 0.1584
$$
The relationship between transmission power and measured power is estimated by this function:
$$
f(x) = 2.095x + 0.1584
$$
## 2) Predict the average measured power for $P_{tx} =1$ W
We use the estimated function:
$$
f(1) = 2.095\cdot 1 + 0.1584 = 2.2534
$$
## 3) Can you reject the null hypothesis $H_{0}: \beta_{1} \leq 1.5$ with $5\%$ significance?
Since we are dealing with Gaussian noise, we can use the following test statistic:
$$
T = (\hat{\beta_{1}} - \beta_{1})\sqrt{ n }/\sigma
$$
With the rejection region $R = {\hat{\mu}: T > c}$, $c = Z_{0.05} = 1.6449$:
We dont know true variance, so cannot do Z-test.
We use the estimated value for $\beta_{1}$ as the estimator:
We dont know the variance, so i use data variance as estimator:
$$
\hat{\sigma}^2 = S_{5}^2 = 0.4977
$$
We cannot actually use $S_{n}^2$ as estimator for variance of $\beta_{1}$, but is complicated.
WE JUST USE MSE INSTEAD LOL
$$
T = (2.095 - 1.5)\sqrt{ 5 }/0.4977 = 2.673
$$
And since $T > c \implies 2.673 > 1.6449$ we reject the hypothesis.

# Problem S.3
Consider the following hypothetical scenario. A website has compiled a list with the battery lifetime for a large collection of mobile phone models. To make this list, the website runs a battery lifetime test app and records the time it takes for the phone to go from 100% charge until it shuts down. This process is repeated many times and the average battery lifetime is reported for each phone, which can be taken as the ground truth. The longest battery lifetime for any phone in the market is 1120 minutes. A new phone model is released and the company behind it claims that it is the one with longest battery lifetime in the market. The website is set to release a review article about this new phone and needs to test whether the claim of the company is true but, due to time constraints, it can only perform the test on the phone 5 times and gets the results:

| Test number                | 1      | 2      | 3      | 4      | 5      |
| -------------------------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| Battery lifetime (minutes) | $1090$ | $1130$ | $1122$ | $1101$ | $1110$ |
## 1) Assume that the website knows that the battery lifetime of the phones tested with the app follows a normal distribution with parameters ($\mu_{phone}$, $\sigma^2$) with $σ = 10$. Is the collected data enough to reject the null hypothesis $H_{0} : \mu_{phone} > 1120$, which claims that the new phone has the longest average battery lifetime? To answer this, calculate your estimate $\hat{\mu}_{phone}$ and perform the corresponding test with $7\%$ significance

We can use sample mean as MLE for $\mu_{phone}$:
$$
\hat{\mu}_{phone} = \frac{1}{n}\sum_{i=0}^n X_{i} = \frac{5553}{5} = 1110.6
$$
We can not run the test for $H_{0}: \mu_{phone} > 1120$, as the null hypothesis must include an equality. So either we have to swap $H_{0}$ and $H_{1}$, or we have to slightly redefine $H_{0}$ to $H_{0}: \mu_{phone} \geq 1120$, which is what i have done.
Test statistic:
$$
T = (\hat{\mu}_{n} - \mu_{0}) \frac{\sqrt{ n }}{\sigma} = (1110.6 - 1120) \frac{\sqrt{ 5 }}{10} \approx -2.102
$$
We can compare this with the one sided Z-value for $7\%$ significance in the rejection region:
$$
R = \{T < - Z_{0.07}\} = \{-2.102 < -1.4758\} = true
$$
The T value is within the rejection region, so we cannot say with $7\%$ significance, that the new phone has the longest average battery lifetime.

## 2) Still assuming that $\sigma = 10$: what is the minimum level of significance to reject the company’s claim?

To do this, we simply calculate the P-value of the test statistic:
$$
v = \Phi(-2.102) = 0.0178
$$
So the claim can be rejected with any significance higher than $1.78\%$.


## 3) Assume now that the website doesn’t know the value of $\sigma$. Calculate an estimate for $\sigma$ and perform the corresponding test with $7\%$ significance. Can you reject the claim of the company in this case?
In this case we will estimate the standard deviation, using the sample variance:
$$
\hat{\sigma} = \sqrt{ \hat{\sigma}^2 } = \sqrt{ S^2 } = \sqrt{ 255.8 } = 15.9937
$$
We can run the same test, with new variance:
$$
T = (\hat{\mu}_{n} - \mu_{0}) \frac{\sqrt{ n }}{\hat{\sigma}} = (1110.6 - 1120) \frac{\sqrt{ 5 }}{15.9937} \approx -1.3142
$$
Since we are no longer certain that it is a normal distribution, and the central limit theorem doesn't apply when there are only 5 data points, we can compare this with the one sided T-value for $7\%$ significance in the rejection region:
$$
R = \{T < - t_{0.07, 4}\} = \{-1.3142 < -1.8375\} = false
$$
In the case where we estimate the variance, we can no longer reject the claim at a $7\%$ significance.
