# Problem P.1
## 1) What is the probability that exactly 18 packets are received correctly?
Since the probability of each part of the packets are independent, the total probability of receiving a packet is:
$$
p = p_{1} \cdot p_{2}\cdot p_{3} = 0.95 \cdot 0.8\cdot 0.9 = 0.684 = 68.4\%
$$
There are only two outcomes: the packets is received or not, therefore this is a Bernoulli random variable with parameter $p=0.684$. Since we have a series of multiple Bernoulli trials, it becomes a RV with a Binomial distribution $X \sim b(20, 0.684)$
The probability of receiving exactly 18 packets with this distribution is:
$$
P(X=18) = \begin{pmatrix}n\\i\end{pmatrix} p^i(1-p)^{n-i} = \begin{pmatrix}20\\18\end{pmatrix} 0.684^{18}(1-0.684)^{2} \approx 0.02038 = 2.038\%
$$
## 2) What is the probability that at least 18 packets are received correctly?
$$
P(X\geq18) = \sum_{i=18}^{20}\begin{pmatrix}20\\i\end{pmatrix} 0.684^{i}(1-0.684)^{20-i} \approx 0.0255 = 2.55\%
$$
## 3) What is the expected number of packets that are successfully delivered?
$$
E[X] = np = 20 \cdot 0.684 = 13.68
$$
## 4) Calculate the probability that at least 3 packets are received correctly for the following set of parameters: $p_{1} = 10^{-2}$, $p_{2} = 10^{-2}$, $p_{3} = 10^{-1}$ and $n = 10^5$.
Now the total probability of receiving a packet becomes:
$$
p = 10^{-2} \cdot 10^{-2} \cdot 10^{-1} = 10^{-5}
$$
Now we have a binomial distribution $X \sim b(10^5, 10^{-5})$, which is a special case, since binomial distributions with large $n$ and small $p$, can be approximated with a Poisson distribution with $\lambda=np$:
$$
X \approx Poisson(1)
$$
$$
P(X\geq 3) = 1 - P(X<3)= 1- \sum_{i=0}^2 \frac{e^{-1}}{i!} = 1 - \frac{5e^{-1}}{2} \approx 0.0803 = 8.03\%
$$
# Problem P.2
The joint probability density function for a random variable (RV) $X$ and a RV $Y$ is given by the following formula:
$$
f_{X, Y}(x, y) = \begin{cases}
6(1-y) &  0\leq x\leq y\leq 1 \\
0 & \text{otherwise}
\end{cases}
$$
Draw the area where this function is not zero. Calculate the marginal probability density functions $f_{X}(x)$ and $f_{Y}(y)$.

Im pretty sure what this wants is a y=x line, and everything above it is colored in, since y has to be larger than x.

Marginal PDFs:
$$
f_{X}(x) = \int_{-\infty}^\infty f_{X,Y}(x, y) dy = \int_{x}^1 6(1-y) dy = 3(1-x)^2, (0\leq x \leq 1)
$$
$$
f_{Y}(y) = \int_{-\infty}^\infty f_{X,Y}(x, y) dx = \int_{0}^y 6(1-y) dx = 6y(1-y), (0\leq y \leq 1)
$$


# Problem P.3
A mobile robot uses a proximity sensor to detect obstacles in its path. The sensor isn’t perfect, and its behavior is characterized as follows:
1) If an obstacle is present, the sensor correctly detects it with probability 0.99.
2) If no obstacle is present, the sensor still falsely detects one with probability 0.2
From the geometry of the room and frequency of sampling we know that probability that there is an obstacle in front of the robot is equal to 0.3.

## 1) What is the probability that the sensor detects an obstacle in any given reading?
We define some things. $D$ is RV for robot making detection. $O$ is RV for an obstacle being present.
$$
P(D|O) = 0.99
$$
$$
P(D|O^c) = 0.2
$$
$$
P(O) = 0.3
$$
To get probability of detection, we use law of total probability:
$$
P(D) = P(D|O)P(O) + P(D|O^c)P(O^c) = 0.99\cdot 0.3 + 0.2\cdot 0.7 = 0.437 = 43.7\%
$$
## 2) The sensor signals that there is an obstacle ahead. What is the probability that there is actually an obstacle?
Here, we apply Bayes formula:
$$
P(O|D) = \frac{P(D|O)P(O)}{P(D)} = \frac{0.99 \cdot 0.3}{0.437} \approx 0.6796 = 67.96\%
$$


# Problem S.1
An Olympic athlete, who specializes in high jump, has recorded the number of attempts needed to jump above 2 meters during each training day. This is RV $X$.
Her records from the last 8 days, with $X_{i}$ being the number of attempts until successfully jumping above 2 meters in the $i$-th day (i.e., experiment), including the successful attempt, are: 5, 4, 4, 3, 4, 2, 1, 3

## 1) Estimate $\bar{X}_{n}$, which is the average number of attempts until successfully jumping above 2 meters.
$$
\bar{X}_{n} = \frac{1}{n}\sum_{i=1}^nX_{i} = \frac{26}{8} = 3.25
$$

## 2) Calculate the two-sided $94\%$ confidence interval for $X_{n}$ using the t-distribution.
We start by estimating variance:
$$
\hat{\sigma}^2 = S_{8}^2 = \frac{11.5}{7} \approx 1.6429
$$
Which we convert to estimate for standard deviation:
$$
\hat{\sigma} = \sqrt{ \hat{\sigma}^2 }= \sqrt{ 1.6429 } \approx 1.2818
$$
Then we calculate the interval, using $\hat{\mu}_{n} = \bar{X}_{n}$:
$$
C_{0.94} =  \left(\hat{\mu}_{n} - T_{\frac{0.06}{2},7} \frac{\hat{\sigma}_{n}}{\sqrt{ n }}, \hat{\mu}_{n} + T_{\frac{0.06}{2}, 7} \frac{\hat{\sigma}_{n}}{\sqrt{ n }} \right) = \left( 3.25 - 2.2409 \frac{1.2818}{\sqrt{ 8 }}, 3.25 + 2.2409 \frac{1.2818}{\sqrt{ 8 }} \right)
$$
$$
C_{0.94} = (2.2345, 4.2655)
$$

# Problem S.2
The evolution of 3 different phenomena through time has been recorded through several days.

## 1) Obtain the regression coefficients for each of the phenomena.
I will use the simplified form of the least squares linear regression formula:
$$
\hat{\beta}_{1} = \frac{n\sum X_{i}Y_{i} - \left( \sum X_{i} \right)\left( \sum Y_{i} \right)}{n\sum X_{i}^2 - \left( \sum X_{i} \right)^2}
$$
And the following to calculate y-intercept:
$$
\hat{\beta}_{0} = \bar{Y}_{n} - \hat{\beta}_{1}\bar{X}_{n}
$$
This has been done one all phenomenon:
Phenomenon 1:
$$
\hat{\beta}_{1} \approx 3.7 \land \hat{\beta}_{0} = -5.55
$$
Phenomenon 2:
$$
\hat{\beta}_{1} \approx 2.79 \land \hat{\beta}_{0} = -2.06
$$
Phenomenon 3:
$$
\hat{\beta}_{1} \approx 3.06 \land \hat{\beta}_{0} = 3.63
$$
## 2) Determine for which of the three phenomena the linear model has a better fit. Provide the name and formulation of the coefficient that you used to support your answer and the values obtained for the three phenomena.
I calculated the mean square error for all phenomenon, using this formula:
$$
s^2 = \frac{\sum_{i=1}^n(Y_{i} -\hat{Y_{i}})^2}{n-2}
$$
For phenomenon 1:
$$
s^2= 196.53
$$
For phenomenon 2:
$$
s^2= 29.04
$$
For phenomenon 3:
$$
s^2=  94.14
$$

# Problem S.3
A specific type of light bulb is advertised to produce 1600 lumens. To test this product, the following luminosity measurements, given in lumens, were collected
$$
1550, 1620, 1490, 1599, 1580, 1601
$$
Make the following tests with 2% significance for the mean luminosity of the light bulbs $\mu$. Provide your test statistic and rejection region or the p-value to support your conclusion.
## 1) A two-sided test for the null hypothesis $H_{0}: \mu = 1600$. Provide the estimated mean $\hat{\mu}_{n}$ and sample standard deviation $S_{n}$. 
As we do not know population mean or standard deviation, we will estimate based on the sample:
$$
\hat{\mu}_{n} = \bar{X}_{n} = \frac{9440}{6} \approx 1573.33
$$
$$
\hat{\sigma} = \sqrt{ \hat{\sigma}^2  }= \sqrt{ S_{n}^2  } \approx \sqrt{ 2227.066 } \approx 47.192
$$
We use the test statistic:
$$
T = |\hat{\mu}_{n} - \mu_{0}| \frac{\sqrt{ n }}{\hat{\sigma}}= |1573.33-1600| \frac{\sqrt{ 6 }}{47.192} \approx 1.3843
$$
Which we compare to the t value for two-sided $2\%$ confidence in the rejection region:
$$
R = \{T > T_{0.02/2, 5}\} = \{1.3843 > 3.3649\} = false
$$
So we cannot reject the null hypothesis with $2\%$ certainty

## 2) A test for the null-hypothesis $H_{0}: \mu > 1600$.
We cannot have a null hypothesis without equality, so i will test for $H_{0}: \mu \geq 1600$
With a very similar test statistic:
$$
T = (\hat{\mu}_{n} - \mu_{0}) \frac{\sqrt{ n }}{\hat{\sigma}}= (1573.33-1600) \frac{\sqrt{ 6 }}{47.192} \approx -1.3843
$$
Now the rejection region is one-sided:
$$
R = \{T < -T_{0.02,5}\} = \{-1.3843 < -2.7565\} = false
$$
So we do not reject the new $H_{0}: \mu\geq 1600$ with confidence $2\%$


Now consider that the sample size is increased to $n = 20$ but both the estimated mean $\hat{\mu}_{n}$ and the sample standard deviation $S_{n}$ remain the same.
## 3) What is the minimum level of significance to reject the null hypothesis $H_{0}:\mu = 1600$? Is it rejected with $n = 20$?
Same as before, this time with $n=20$:
$$
T = |1573.33-1600| \frac{\sqrt{ 20 }}{47.192} \approx 2.5273
$$
$$
R = \{T > T_{0.02/2, 19}\} = \{2.5273 > 2.5395\} = false
$$
We cannot reject the hypothesis with $2\%$ with the new $n=20$. To calculate minimum level of significance we calculate the p value:
$$
v  = 2 (1-Pr(2.5273, df=19)) \approx 0.02052 = 2.05\%
$$
We can reject this hypothesis with any level of confidence above $2.05\%$
## 4) What is the minimum level of significance to reject the null hypothesis $H_{0}:\mu > 1600$? Is it rejected with $n = 20$?
$$
T = (1573.33-1600) \frac{\sqrt{ 20 }}{47.192} \approx -2.5273
$$
$$
R = \{T < -T_{0.02,19}\} = \{-2.5273 < -2.2047\} = true
$$
So we can reject this hypothesis with $2\%$ significance.
To calculate the minimum level of significance, we calculate the p value:
$$
v  = Pr(2.5273, df=19) \approx 0.01026 = 1.026\%
$$
We can reject this hypothesis with any level of confidence above $1.026\%$, which is why we also rejected it at $2\%$ significance